
# Url-Shortener-Service
Full-Stack url shortener service

## Installation:

1. Clone this repo.
2. `cd Url-Shortener-Service`
3. Make sure you have node package manager installed.
4. Run `npm install`
5. Create a `.env` file in the root and fill in the ```PORT, MONGO_URI, BASE_URL, JWT_SECRET```
6. Run `npm run server`

**The server will run on http://localhost:5000/ if the port isn't specified in .env file**

7. Open a new terminal, and `cd client`
8. Run `npm install`
9. `cd ..`
10. Run `npm run client`

**The ui will run on http://localhost:3000/**

**Note: Changing the server port in the .env will require you to change it in the setupProxy.js file in client folder as well**

## Conceptual Questions: 

### 1. How would you test this service? 
Using postman which is an API testing tool, also I would use a testing framework or testing library, such as : Mocha js, Chai js and Jest.
Also, open the browser and type in the url `http://localhost:3000/` and create an account, then you can test the service by trying to shorten any valid url.

### 2. What DB models would need to change to support multiple users? 
I would add only one DB model for users, also I would add a new field to the Url model to store the id of the user who requested the short link along with the url details in database.

**Note: This is already implemented in the code.**

### 3. How can this service support 1000 concurrent requests? 
We can use load balancing and caching services, I highly recommend using nginx for it's widely used specially in situations with static content and/or high concurrent requests, to provide performance optimization and also make the application run faster. 

### 4. What kind of database models do you think would cause an issue and why? 
I think url model might cause some issues, because currently, all short urls generated by this service are 9 characters long, so if in the future when the service is used by a big amount of users then a generated short url could be associted with multiple long urls.
